This Data Processing Addendum, hereafter "DPA", is an Agreement between
Akenes SA hereafter "Exoscale" and the client hereafter "Client". This
Addendum is either an extension to the Exoscale Terms and Conditions
available at <https://www.exoscale.com/terms/>, or the EUSA, as the case
maybe, (each hereafter T&C) as updated from time to time between Client
and Exoscale, when GDPR applies to your use of the Services to process
Client Data.

Applicable starting September 1st, 2021 and binding at Client acceptance
date as stored in the legal section of the Exoscale Portal of the Client.
[Previous version](https://github.com/exoscale/terms/blob/master/dpa-previous.markdown)
[Compare](https://github.com/exoscale/terms/commits/master)

## 1. Definitions

GDPR means Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of
such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection
Regulation).

The terms "Personal Data", "Data Subject", "Processing", "Controller",
"Processor", "Union" and "Member State" as used in this Data Processing
Addendum have the meanings given in the GDPR.

Unless otherwise defined in this DPA, all capitalized terms used shall
have the meanings given to them in the T&C.

## 2. Details of Processing

Subject matter: the subject matter of the data processing under this DPA
is Client Data.

Duration: throughout the Term of the Services being provided by Exoscale
to Client. Term of Services under this DPA is determined by the Client
or exceptionally by Exoscale via provisions of the T&C.

Nature and Purpose of the Processing: compute, storage, and  platform
services as described in the Website and initiated by Client excluding
third party services available from the Exoscale Marketplace. The
purpose is the provision of the Services initiated by Client.

Type of personal data: personal data uploaded to the Services under
Client's Exoscale accounts.

Categories of data subjects: the data subjects include without
limitation: Client's customers, employees, suppliers, and end-users.

## 3. Obligations and Rights of the Controller

If European Data Protection Legislation applies to the processing of
Client's data, the parties acknowledge and agree that Exoscale is a
Processor of Client's data under European Data Protection Legislation,
that Client is a Controller under European Data Protection Legislation
(unless when Client acts as a Processor, in which case Exoscale is a
sub-Processor) and that the parties complies with their obligations
under applicable European Data Protection Legislation with respect to
the processing of Personal Data.

## 4. Client Instructions

By entering into this DPA, the parties agree that the DPA constitutes
Client's documented instructions regarding Exoscale's processing of
Personal Data. Exoscale only processes Client Data to the extent that is
necessary to provide the Services.

The processor shall immediately inform the controller if, in its opinion, an
instruction infringes applicable data protection regulations or other Union
or Member State data protection provisions.

## 5. Confidentiality

Exoscale does not access, use, or share Client Data to any third party,
except when this access, use or sharing is necessary to provide the
Services, or as required to comply with law enforcement requests.

Exoscale ensures that the persons authorized to process personal data
have committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate
statutory obligation of confidentiality.

## 6. Security of Processing

Exoscale implements and maintains appropriate technical and
organizational security measures to protect Client Data against
accidental destruction, alteration or access. These measures take into
account the state of the art and include (a) the pseudonymisation and
encryption of Client Data; (b) the ability to ensure the ongoing
confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing
systems and services; (c) the ability to restore the availability and
access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or
technical incident; (d) a process for regularly testing, assessing and
evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures
for ensuring the security of the processing. Exoscale may assess and
improve security measures at regular intervals, provided that these
improvements lead to an increased level of security for providing the
Services. Exoscale assists the Client in ensuring compliance with the
obligations pursuant to Articles 32 to 36 of the GDPR given the nature
of processing and the information available to Exoscale.

## 7. Processors

Exoscale maintains a list of its sub-Processors per Service at
[https://www.exoscale.com/privacy/#data-processors](https://www.exoscale.com/privacy/#data-processors).
Exoscale informs the Client of any intended changes concerning the
addition or replacement of other Processors at least 30 days in advance.
Exoscale makes sure Data Processing Addendums are in place with its
sub-Processors to ensure compliance with the GDPR and our security/data
protection policies. If the Client objects the addition or replacement
of a sub-Processor, they may terminate the services as described in the T&C.

## 8. Data Subject Rights

Exoscale assists the Client for the fulfilment of their obligation to
respond to requests for exercising the data subject's rights as laid
down in Chapter III of the GDPR: (a) right of access by the data
subject, (b) right to rectification, (c) right to erasure, (d) right to
restriction of processing, and (e) right to data portability. Upon
receiving such requests from data subjects, Exoscale uses commercially
reasonable efforts to forward requests to the Client.

## 9. Deletion and Return

Client's right to data return is described in Section 13 of the T&C.
In addition, Exoscale deletes all the personal data after
the end of the provision of Services and deletes existing copies unless
Union or Member State law requires storage of the personal data.

## 10. Audit rights

Exoscale allows for and contributes to audits, including inspections, to
demonstrate compliance with the obligations and measures described in
this DPA conducted by the Client or another auditor mandated by the
Client by means of random checks during business hours, which are
ordinarily to be announced 1 month in prior. In order to carry out an
inspection, the Client shall send a detailed audit / control plan to
Exoscale at least two weeks before the scheduled date of the audit,
indicating the scope, duration of the audit and the start date of the
audit. Exoscale shall review the audit/control plan and provide the
Client with any material concerns and questions, such as information
requests, that may affect the security, privacy or employment policy of
the Exoscale. In any case, Exoscale cooperates cooperatively with the
Client to agree on a final audit/control plan. Exoscale may claim
remuneration for enabling Client inspections. Proof of the
implementation of technical and organizational measures to comply with
the obligations arising from this contract may be provided by:

a) Certification according to an approved certification procedure in
accordance with Art.42 GDPR;
b) Current auditor's certificates, reports or excerpts from reports
provided by independent bodies (e.g. auditor, Data Protection
Officer, IT security department, data privacy auditor, quality
auditor)
c) A relevant certification by IT security or data protection auditing
(e.g. according to IT Baseline Protection certification developed by
the [German](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Germany) Federal Office
for Security in Information Technology (BSI)) or ISO/IEC).
d) Annual reports by Exoscale

## Schedule 1: Exoscale Security Controls

### Confidentiality

**Physical Access Control**: physical access to facilities is guarded by
24/7 staff performing identity controls, as well as automated mechanisms
including fenced doors with biometric checks, CCTV recording, and motion
detection.

**Electronic access control**: strong password policy, encryption of
at-rest data, use of state-of-the art software security mechanisms.

**Internal Access Control**: data access requests to Exoscale systems
are made according to an authorizations scheme implementing need-based
rights of access. All system access events are logged within Exoscale's
visibility platform.

**Isolation Control**: strong logical separation is enforced between
Data Subjects.

**Pseudonymization**: Personal data is processed in a way allowing that
the data cannot be associated with a specific Data Subject without the
assistance of additional information, stored separately.

### Integrity

**Data Transfer Control**: Personal Data is only transferred in an
encrypted way to ensure no unauthorized reading, copying, changes or
deletion happens during the transfer.

**Data Entry Control**: data entry events are logged within Exoscale's
visibility platform.

### Availability and Resilience

**Availability control**:

- Physical: redundant power, network and storage mitigate against
  hardware issues leading to data unavailability or loss.
- Logical: firewalling provides strong systems isolation. Online and
  offline backups are made to prevent accidental or wilful destruction
  or loss.

**Rapid recovery**: in the event of a physical or technical incident,
Exoscale keeps the ability to restore the availability and access to
personal data in a timely manner.

### Procedures for regular testing, assessment and evaluation

**Data Protection Management**: Exoscale reviews on a yearly basis 1)
its record of activity that inventories the processing of personal data,
and 2) its Data Access response procedures.

**Incident Response Management**: Exoscale carries yearly assessments of
incident response scenarios, including data breach and data recovery
procedures.

**Data Protection by Design and by Default**: Exoscale processes data
while ensuring the processing is done with the highest level of privacy
protection:

- Only a minimal set of data is processed, stored, or transferred over
  the wire.
- Storage period is the shortest possible for the given data
  processed.
- Access is as restricted as possible.
- Encryption is used for all data access workloads.
- Pseudonymization is generalized in the processing of Personal Data.

**Order or Contact Control**: data processors are subject to clear and
unambiguous contractual arrangements, formalized order management,
strict controls on the selection of the Service Provider, as well as
regular supervisory follow-up checks.
