**EXOSCALE END USER SERVICE AGREEMENT (EUSA) **

**applicable between Akenes (Exoscale) and You (Client) for Exoscale
Services purchased from Authorized Partner**

This Service Agreement is entered into between the entity you represent,
or, if you do not designate an entity in connection with a Subscription
purchase or renewal, you individually (“Client”), and Akenes
(“Exoscale”). It consists of the terms and conditions below, Use Rights,
SLA, and all documents referenced within those documents (together, the
“agreement”). It is effective on the date that the Authorized Partner
provisions your Subscription.

Applicable starting January 16th, 2019

[Previous version](https://github.com/exoscale/terms/blob/master/eusa-previous.markdown)
[Compare](https://github.com/exoscale/terms/commits/master/eusa.markdown)

## 1. Definitions

**“Authorized Partner”** means an entity which has entered into an
Agreement with Exoscale and which is entitled to resell or distribute
the Products and Services of Exoscale to Clients.

“**Client**” means You, representing a company or individual purchasing
Exoscale Services from an Authorized Partner.

“**Client Data**” means any data (including but not limited to any
software application) stored by Client on the cloud infrastructure
provided by Exoscale, including all text, pictures, sound, video, and
log files and all documentation (printed or electronic).

“**Client Technology**” means Client’s proprietary technology, including
without limitation, algorithms, software (in source and object codes),
user interface designs, architecture, know-how, and any related
Intellectual Property Rights throughout the world (whether owned by
Client or licensed to Client from a third party).

“**Exoscale**” means Akenes SA, Boulevard de Grancy 19A, 1006 Lausanne,
Switzerland.

“**Exoscale Data**” means any data, including but not limited to any
software applications, class libraries, texts, pictures, sounds, videos,
and log files, and documentation (printed or electronic).

“**Exoscale Service(s)**” or “**Service(s)**” means the
Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) cloud computing services provided by
Exoscale to Client, namely an on-demand network access to a shared pool
of configurable computing resources (such as virtualization, servers,
storage, networking, and datacenter facilities).

“**Exoscale Technology**” means Exoscale’s proprietary technology,
including without limitation, the Services, software tools, hardware
designs, algorithms, software (in source and object codes), user
interface designs, architecture, network designs, know-how, business
methods, and any related Intellectual Property Rights throughout the
world (whether owned by Exoscale or licensed to Exoscale from a third
party).

“**EUSA** mean this Exoscale End User Service Agreement.

“**Users**” means any person or entity deriving use of the Services
through Client including but not limited to the Client (its employees,
consultants, contractors, and agents), an Affiliate of Client or a
customer of Client.

“**Force Majeure Event**” is any event beyond a Party’s reasonable
control, including, without limitation, acts of war, earthquake,
hurricanes, flood, fire or other similar casualty, embargo, riot,
terrorism, sabotage, strikes, any act or omission (including laws,
regulations, disapprovals or failures to approve) of any government or
government agency, insurrections, epidemics, inability to procure
materials or transportation facilities, failure of power, court orders,
condemnation, failure of the Internet, or other event of a similar
nature.

“**Governmental Authority**” means any federal, national, cantonal or
city, court, governmental or administrative authority or regulatory
body, whether foreign or domestic.

“**Intellectual Property Rights**” means and includes any and all
intellectual property of whatever nature and kind including without
limitation patents, designs, trademarks and service marks, copyrights,
domain names, trade names (whether such rights are applied for,
registered or not), database rights, design rights, inventions,
drawings, computer programs, data, formulae, algorithm, software,
know-how, confidential information, goodwill and applications and the
right to apply for protection of any of the above rights.

“**Malicious Code**” means viruses, worms, time bombs, Trojan horses and
other harmful or malicious code, files, scripts, agents or programs.

“**Non-Exoscale Applications**” means online applications and offline
software products that are provided by entities or individuals other
than Exoscale and are clearly identified as such, and that interoperate
with the Services.

“**Order**” means the order within the active subscription submitted by
Client to Exoscale (for example via the Exoscale Website), setting out
matters relating to Exoscale’s delivery of Services to Client.

**“Exoscale Network**” means the telecommunication network, including
but not limited to fiber-optical and wired/wireless transmission
equipment, which is owned and/or leased and operated and maintained by
Exoscale or its Affiliates.

“**Personal Information**” means any information relating to a natural
person as defined by the applicable law that may be used to identify an
individual.

“**Subscriptions**” means an enrollment of Exoscale Services concluded
between the Client and the Authorized Partner, setting out matters
relating to delivery of Services to Client and governed by these EUSAs
and the Authorized Partner´s Terms and Conditions.

“**Service Level Agreement**” or “**SLA**” means the service level
provisions describing the service level targets as set out in Section 3.

“**Software**” means any software application provided by Exoscale which
Client may be entitled to use in accordance with any Order.

“**Unavailable**” means that Client is unable to access its subscribed
resources running on the Exoscale Service platform due to failure of a
critical component of the Service (including virtual server, server
instance, firewall, load balancer, switch, storage platform, and
connectivity to Exoscale Network Services (i.e. Internet and MPLS –
Multiprotocol Label Switching) from the Exoscale Service platform); and
“**Unavailability**” means accordingly.

“**Website**” means the Exoscale Service website available at
https://portal.exoscale.com.

## 2. The Services – Subscription and Ordering

Client must choose and maintain an Authorized Partner authorized
within its region. If Exoscale or Authorized Partner chooses to
discontinue doing business with each other, Client must choose a
replacement Authorized Partner or purchase a Subscription directly
from Exoscale, which may require Client to accept different terms.

If Client purchases the Products and Services from the Authorized
Partner, these EUSA´s shall apply. In addition (e.g. ordering,
payment…) the Terms and Conditions of the Authorized Partner, as
detailed in the respective subscription for Infrastructure as a
Service Offerings with the Authorized Partner, shall apply. Prices
for each Product and any terms and conditions for invoicing and
payment will be established by Clients’s Authorized Partner. For
avoidance of doubt, if Client purchases the Products and Services
directly from Exoscale, different Terms and Conditions (Exoscale
Service Terms and Conditions) shall apply.

## 3. Service Level Agreement (SLA)

### 3.1 Service Availability Targets

Exoscale shall use commercially reasonable efforts to make the Services
available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with an overall 99.95% annual
availability for the virtual machine (i.e. 365 days minus 4hours20min),
except for:

-   Planned downtime and maintenance events;

-   Force Majeure Events;

-   Unavailability of the Website;

-   Failures or malfunctions in any Client software, equipment or
    technology; and/or

-   If Client is in breach of these EUSA, including but not limited to
    its payment obligations against the Authorized Partner and the use
    of Services

### 3.2 Incident Management Service Levels

Exoscale targets to respond to incidents within the maximum following
time frame as of receipt of notice of incident within fifteen (15)
minutes. For avoidance of doubt, receipt of notice means the time at
which Exoscale has knowledge of the incident.

### 3.3 Standard Service Requests

Exoscale shall provide platform usage support as follows:

-   Password reset: within one (1) hour from receipt of request; and

-   Start, Stop, Reboot: within one (1) hour from receipt of request.

The platform usage support shall be free of charge. For avoidance of
doubt, the support period starts as soon as Exoscale has knowledge of
the request.

### 3.4 Service Unavailability Credit

Except under the conditions mentioned in the section 3.1 above, if the
Services Availability is less than 99.95%, the Exoscale will issue a
credit to Client according to the following table:

-   From 99.95% to 98.3% : fifty percent (50%) of the monthly Service
    Fees for the affected Services

-   Below 98.3% : one hundred percent (100%) of the monthly Service Fees
    for the affected Services

The credit will be calculated based on the monthly service charge for
the affected Services. The Client shall address a Service Unavailability
Credit request within ten (10) business days via email to
sales@exoscale.ch mentioning the Client name and address as well as the
times and dates of the unavailability. If the unavailability is
confirmed by the Exoscale, credits will be applied within two billing
cycles after Exoscale’s receipt of Client’s credit request. Credits are
not refundable and can be used only towards future billing charges.

## 4 Use of the Services

### 4.1 Protection of Client Data

#### 4.1.1 Safeguards

Exoscale shall maintain appropriate safeguards for protection of the
security, confidentiality and integrity of Client Data. Exoscale shall
not (i) modify Client Data, (ii) disclose Client Data except as
compelled by law in accordance with Section 7.3 or as expressly
permitted by Client in accordance with Section 7.3 or (iii) access
Client Data except to provide the Services and prevent or address
service or technical problems, or at Client’s request in connection with
Client support matters.

In the event Exoscale is processing Personal Information in accordance
with Art 28 GDPR, the data processing agreement published on the website
shall apply.

#### 4.1.2 Sub-contractors

Exoscale may engage sub-contractors to fulfil its contractual
obligations. Exoscale will obtain the sub-contractor’s written
confirmation that the sub-contractor complies with the provisions of
applicable data protection law.

### 4.2 Data Storage

Client acknowledges and agrees that Exoscale shall not be responsible
for any Data stored by Client using the Services. Notwithstanding the
above, Client may copy such Data using the Services to a separate
location at any time. The Data stored by Client in Switzerland shall at
all times be stored solely in Switzerland. Likewise, data stored by
Client in another non-Swiss Exoscale location shall remain at all times
in the same country as the base location.

Because the Internet is an inherently open and insecure means of
communication, any Data a User transmits over the Internet may be
susceptible to interception and alteration. Exoscale makes no guarantee
regarding, and assumes no liability for, the security and integrity of
any Data a User transmits via the Service or over the Internet,
including any Data or information transmitted via any server designated
as “secure”.

### 4.3 Client’s Responsibilities

Client shall (i) be responsible for Users’ compliance with these EUSAs,
(ii) be responsible for the accuracy, quality and legality of Client
Data and of the means by which Client acquired the Data, (iii) use
commercially reasonable efforts to prevent unauthorized access to or use
of the Services, and notify Exoscale promptly of any such unauthorized
access or use, and (iv) use the Services only in accordance with the
EUSAs and applicable laws. Client is responsible for maintaining the
security of its internal network from unauthorized access through the
Internet. Exoscale shall not be liable for unauthorized access to
Client’s network or other breaches of Client’s network security.

### 4.4 Misuse of the Services

Client shall not (i) make the Services available to anyone other than
Users, (ii) sell, resell, rent or lease the Services, (iii) use the
Services to store or transmit unlawful material or messages, or to store
or transmit material or messages in violation of third-party privacy
rights, (iv) use the Services to store or transmit Malicious Codes, (v)
interfere with or disrupt the integrity or performance of the Services
or third-party data contained therein, or (vi) attempt to gain
unauthorised access to the Services or their related systems or
networks, (vii) transmit or distribute material containing fraudulent
offers for goods or services, or any advertising or promotional
materials that contain false, deceptive or misleading statements or
representations, or (viii) transmit or distribute unsolicited e-mail
messages where such e-mail messages could reasonably be expected to
provoke complaints (spam), all of which as reasonably determined by
Exoscale in accordance with generally accepted standards of the Internet
community.

### 4.5 Unauthorized or Fraudulent Use of the Services

Client shall be responsible for (save as to the extent caused by any
acts or omissions of Exoscale) taking all reasonable measures to avoid,
and immediately notify Exoscale in the event of, any unauthorized or
fraudulent use of the Services. Client will be solely responsible for
all Service Fees and other charges incurred in respect of the Services
even if such Service Fees and other charges were incurred through or as
a result of such fraudulent or unauthorized use of the Services.

### 4.6 Interruption of the Services

In case the Exoscale’s infrastructure is damaged (or threatened to be
damaged) through the IP Address of a Client (e.g. virus or hacking) or
otherwise, Exoscale is expressly authorized to immediately interrupt the
Exoscale Services and shall immediately inform the Client thereof.

### 4.7 Intellectual Property Rights

Material accessible through the Exoscale Services may be subject to
protection under privacy, publicity, or other personal rights and
Intellectual Property Rights. Users shall not use the Exoscale Services
in any manner that would infringe, dilute, misappropriate, or otherwise
violate any such rights.

### 4.8 Export Control

The Parties acknowledge that products, software, and technical
information (including, but not limited to Services, technical
assistance and training) provided under these Terms and Conditions or
used by Client in connection to the Services, may be subject to export
laws and regulations of Switzerland and other countries, and any use or
transfer of the products, software, and technical information must be in
compliance with all applicable regulations.

## 5. Software Licenses

### 5.1 Acquisition of Software

Client may be provided with the right to use certain Software which
shall be governed by the terms of the relevant Software license terms
available at the Website. Client authorizes Exoscale to enter into
relevant Software license in Client’s name as a client to satisfy any
Software license terms and third party Software license terms so as to
accomplish any Services pursuant to these Terms and Conditions. Client
agrees and acknowledges that Exoscale is not renting any client software
to Client. Exoscale does not warrant or support Non-exoscale
Applications, whether or not they are designated by Exoscale as
“certified” or otherwise.

### 5.2 Non-exoscale Applications and Client’s Data

If Client installs or enables Non-exoscale Applications for use with the
Services, Client acknowledges that it may allow providers of those
Non-exoscale Applications to access its Data as required for the
interoperation of such Non-exoscale Applications with the Services.
Exoscale shall not be responsible for any disclosure, modification or
deletion of Client’s Data resulting from any such access by Non-exoscale
Application providers.

### 5.3 Demarcation of Responsibilities

Exoscale is only responsible for providing management of server host
hardware including storage and a web based portal for overall management
of the Services and, if requested by Client and agreed by Exoscale, the
provision of the Software. Client is responsible for managing and
operating the Software including but not limited to patch management,
upgrades, antivirus, system security, application programs and data.
Client is also responsible for managing and configuring its use of the
Service (via the Website and any application interface provided)
including but not limited to User access administration, security
controls.

## 6. Proprietary Rights

### 6.1 Technology and Data

Client is and shall remain exclusively entitled to all right and
interest in and to all Client Technology, Client Data and its
Confidential Information, and Exoscale is and shall remain exclusively
entitled to all right and interest in and to all Exoscale Technology,
Exoscale Data and its Confidential Information. Neither Party shall,
directly or indirectly, reverse engineer, de-compile, disassemble or
otherwise attempt to derive source code or other trade secrets from the
property of the other Party.

Client shall not (i) create derivative works based on the Services, (ii)
copy, frame or mirror any part or content of the Services, other than
copying or framing Client’s own intranet, or (iii) access the Services
in order to build a competitive Service or copy any features, functions
or graphics of the Services.

### 6.2 IP Addresses

The Parties acknowledge and agree that Exoscale may provide Client the
right to use certain IP (Internet Protocol) addresses owned and/or
licensed by Exoscale in connection with the provision of the Services.
Client acknowledges and agrees on termination of the Agreement for any
cause in which case Client’s right to use such IP addresses shall
automatically terminate. The same applies mutatis mutandis if the
Agreement between Exoscale and Authorized Partner ends, and Client
doesn´t purchase the Services directly from Exoscale.

### 6.3 Client’s Applications and Code

If Client, a third party acting on Client’s behalf, or a User creates
applications or program code using the Services, Client authorizes
Exoscale to host, copy, transmit, display and adapt such applications
and program code, solely as necessary for Exoscale to provide the
Services. Subject to the above, Exoscale acquires no right, title or
interest from Client or Client’s licensors under this Agreement in or to
such applications or program code, including any Intellectual Property
Rights therein.

### 6.4 Suggestions

Exoscale shall have a royalty-free, worldwide, irrevocable, perpetual
license to use and incorporate into the Services any suggestions,
enhancement requests, recommendations or other feedback provided by
Client, including Users, relating to the operation of the Services.

## 7. Confidentiality

### 7.1 Confidential Information

“**Confidential Information**” means all confidential information
disclosed by a party (“**Disclosing Party**”) to the other Party
(“**Receiving Party**”), whether orally or in writing, that is
designated as confidential or that reasonably should be understood to be
confidential given the nature of the information and the circumstances
of disclosure. Client’s Confidential Information shall include Client
Data and Client Technology; Exoscale Confidential Information shall
include the Services, Exoscale Data and Exoscale Technology; and
Confidential Information of each Party shall include this Agreement.
Confidential Information shall not include information that: (i) is
independently developed by the Receiving Party; or (ii) is lawfully
received by the Receiving Party free of any obligation to keep it
confidential; or (iii) becomes generally available to the public other
than by breach of this Section.

### 7.2 Principle

The Confidential Information shall remain the property of the relevant
Party. Each Party shall use the same degree of care that it uses to
protect the confidentiality of its own Confidential Information of like
kind (but in no event less than reasonable care) (i) not to use any
Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party for any purpose outside
the scope of this Agreement, and (ii) to limit access to Confidential
Information of the Disclosing Party to its employees (which for Exoscale
includes its Affiliates’ and its subcontractors’ employees) and its
legal and financial advisors on a ‘need-to-know’ basis provided those
persons first agree to observe the confidentiality of the Confidential
Information, without the other Party’s prior written consent. This
confidentiality undertaking shall be valid for the duration of the
Service and for an indefinite time following termination thereof,
independently of the reasons of termination.

### 7.3 Exceptions

The Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information of the
Disclosing Party if it is compelled to do so by law, any stock exchange,
or any Governmental Authority, provided the Receiving Party gives the
Disclosing Party prior notice of such compelled disclosure (to the
extent legally permitted) and reasonable assistance, at the Disclosing
Party’s cost, if the Disclosing Party wishes to contest the disclosure.
If the Receiving Party is compelled by law to disclose the Disclosing
Party’s Confidential Information as part of a civil proceeding to which
the Disclosing Party is a party, and the Disclosing Party is not
contesting the disclosure, the Disclosing Party will reimburse the
Receiving Party for its reasonable cost of compiling and providing
secure access to such Confidential Information.

If Client believes that, in the course of providing Services under these
Terms and Conditions, Exoscale will have access to data Client does not
want Exoscale to comprehend, Client should encrypt such data so that it
will be unintelligible.

Further, the provisions of Section 9 are reserved.

## 8. Warranties

### 8.1 Representations and Warranties of Client

Client represents and warrants that the performance of Client’s
obligations under these EUSAs, and the use of the Services will not
violate any applicable law, rule or regulation or any contract or
otherwise unreasonably interfere with Exoscale’s Clients’ use of the
Services.

### 8.2 Representations and Warranties of Exoscale

Exoscale represents and warrants that the performance of Exoscale’s
obligations under these EUSA including the respective Order will not
violate any applicable law, rule or regulation; and (iii) Exoscale is
authorized and has completed all required corporate actions necessary to
execute the applicable Order(s).

### 8.3 Exclusion of other Warranties

**Except for the representations and warranties expressly made in these
EUSAs Exoscale makes no representations or warranties, express or
implied, statutory or otherwise, including warranties of
merchantability, satisfactory quality, and fitness for a particular use
or non-infringement of third parties rights.**

## 9. Indemnification

### 9.1 Indemnification

Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 9.3, each Party shall
indemnify the other Party from any claim, demand, suit or proceeding
(“**Claim**”) made or brought by third parties and shall indemnify such
Party for any damages, fees and costs (including attorney fees and court
costs) in respect of (i) damage to tangible property, personal injury or
death caused by such Party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct
(including such Party’s corporate bodies, employees, auxiliaries,
Affiliates, and, in respect of Exoscale, its Users); (ii) a breach by
Client of Section 8.1, respectively by Exoscale of Section 8.2.

### 9.2 Exclusion of Indirect and Consequential Damages

**Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, neither Party shall be
liable for any indirect, incidental or consequential damages (including
but not limited to damages for lost profits, lost revenues, loss of
goodwill, loss of anticipated savings, loss of customers, loss of Client
Data, interference with business or cost of purchasing replacement
services) arising out of the performance or failure to perform under any
Order or these EUSAs, whether or not caused by the acts or omissions of
such Party, its employees or agents, and regardless of whether such
Party has been informed of the possibility or the likelihood of such
damages provided however, that the foregoing limitations shall not apply
to the Parties’ indemnity obligations contained herein.**

### 9.3 Limitation of Liability

**Exoscale’s sole liability for damages arising out of or in connection
with this Agreement is limited to (i) any amount paid by Client to the
Authorized Partner hereunder in the three (3) months preceding the
incident and/or (ii) Client’s right to terminate a particular Service,
being specified that in no event shall Exoscale’s aggregate liability
arising out of or related to this Agreement exceed the total amount paid
by Client to the Authorized Partner hereunder.**

### 9.4 Personal Injury and Death, Fraud and Willful Misconduct

The liability of either Party for (i) personal injury or death resulting
from the negligence of a Party or its employees; (ii) fraud (including
fraudulent misrepresentation) or willful misconduct is not limited.

## 10. Publicity

Neither Party shall have the right to use the other Party’s or its
Affiliates’ trademarks, service marks or trade names or to otherwise
refer to the other Party in any marketing, promotional or advertising
materials or activities, provided, however, that Exoscale shall be
entitled to refer to Client (by name and/or logo, as well as to the
Services, provided that the financial conditions or other disclosed
shall not be disclosed) in any such materials or activities. Neither
Party shall issue any publication nor any press release relating to any
contractual relationship between Exoscale and Client except as required
by law or agreed in writing between the Parties.

## 11. Force Majeure

Neither Party shall be liable, nor shall any other remedy be extended,
for any performance that is prevented or hindered due to a Force Majeure
Event. The defaulting Party shall promptly notify the other Party of an
inability to perform any obligation stipulated in this Agreement as a
result of a Force Majeure Event and take such action as the other Party
shall reasonably request to alleviate the situation. If Exoscale is
unable to provide the Services for a period in excess of thirty (30)
consecutive days due to a Force Majeure Event, then either Party may
cancel the affected Order upon written notice to the other Party, and
both Parties shall be released from any further future liability under
that particular Order.

## 12. Suspension by Exoscale

Exoscale shall have the right, upon written notice, to immediately
suspend any Order(s) and/or the delivery of the Services (without
liability) in the event that:

-   a) Client has violated (i) any law rule, regulation or directive of any
    Governmental Authority related to the Services or Client’s or a User’s
    use thereof or (ii) Section 4 “Use of the Services”; or

-   b) Exoscale receives any direction, notification or instruction from any
    Governmental Authority (or any independent Internet content monitoring
    entity) to suspend or terminate the provision of the Services to Client
    (through no fault or negligence of Exoscale).

In the event Exoscale terminates or suspends an Order because of any
reasons set forth in Sections 12, then Client agrees to pay to
Authorized Partner the Service fees and/or any other fixed minimum
charges for the term of the Subscription/respective Order.

## 13 Return of Data

Upon request of the Client notified at least thirty (30) days prior to
termination of the Services, Exoscale shall make Client Data available
to Client in its original format through the Exoscale recovery service,
upon charge of a recovery service fee. Unless a request for the exoscale
recovery service is made, Exoscale shall have no obligation to maintain
or provide any of Client Data after termination of the Services and
shall thereafter, unless legally prohibited, delete all of Client Data
in Exoscale’s systems or otherwise in Exoscale’s possession or under its
control.

## 14 Surviving Provisions

Sections, 6 (Proprietary Rights), 7 (Confidentiality), 8.3 (Disclaimer
of Warranties), 9 (Indemnification), 12 (Suspension), 15 (Miscellaneous
Provisions) shall survive any termination or expiration of this
Agreement.

## 15. Miscellaneous Provisions

### 15.1 Severability; No Waive

The invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of any provision of this
EUSA shall in no way affect the validity, legality or enforceability of
any other provision thereof. The Parties undertake to negotiate in good
faith with a view to replace such invalid, illegal or unenforceable
provision with another provision that best reflects the intentions of
the Parties.

The failure by either Party to exercise or enforce any provision of this
EUSA shall not be deemed to be a waiver of the application of such
provision or of a right nor to operate so as to bar the exercise or
enforcement of any such provision or right on any later occasion.

### 15.2 Notice

Any notice shall be sent by a Party to the other Party by email,
registered mail or courier, to the following address:

-   a) To Exoscale:

    Akenes SA Att. Exoscale Manager, Boulevard de Grancy 19A, 1006 Lausanne,
    Switzerland

    Email: manager@exoscale.ch

-   b) To Client:

    at the address set forth in the Order(s) or at such other address as may
    hereafter be provided by Client.

### 15.3 Amendments

Exoscale may modify these EUSAs upon a thirty (30) days notice to
Client. Unless the Client has no minimum commitment and can stop using
the Service any time, the Client may terminate any Order by delivering a
written thirty (30) day notice of termination no later than thirty (30)
days after the notification date of the change upon receipt of such
notice.

### 15.4 Governing Law; Jurisdiction

**These Terms and Conditions and any Order shall be governed by the laws
of Switzerland. The Parties irrevocably submit to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the courts of the canton of Vaud, district of Lausanne.
Notwithstanding the above, Exoscale may submit any dispute to any court
of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the applicable conflicts of
law rules.**
